>> Brown: RAIN IN THE ROSE
GARDEN, AS THE PRESIDENT
RESPONDED TO QUESTIONS FROM
REPORTERS ABOUT CONTROVERSIES ON
SEVERAL FRONTS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT, WE
TALK WITH THE WHITE HOUSE
COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR,
JENNIFER PALMIERI ABOUT WHAT THE
ADMINISTRATION IS DOING TO
WEATHER THE POLITICAL UPROAR.
>> Brown: AND WE GET TWO TAKES
ON THE PRESIDENT'S MANAGEMENT OF
THE I.R.S. REVELATIONS AND MORE
AND HOW ALL THIS MIGHT AFFECT
HIS BROADER SECOND-TERM AGENDA.
Wo>>odruff: THEN, WITH SYRIA
HIGH ON THE AGENDA FOR MR.
OBAMA'S MEETING TODAY WITH
TURKEY'S PRIME MINISTER.
MARGARET WARNER HAS OUR UPDATE
ON THE CONFLICT AND RENEWED
EFFORTS TO PUT AN END TO THE
BLOODSHED.
>> Brown: RAY SUAREZ EXPLORES
HOW DEMOGRAPHIC SHIFTS AND
BIBLICAL IDEAS OF HELPING OTHERS
ARE CHANGING THE WAYS
EVANGELICAL CHRISTIANS VIEW THE
IMMIGRATION DEBATE.
>> I THINK THIS IS A MORAL
ISSUE.
I DO THINK IF YOU WELCOME THE
STRANGER AND TREAT HIM AS YOU
WOULD TREAT JESUS, IT THROWS
THINGS INTO A WHOLE DIFFERENT
LIGHT AND MESSES UP YOUR
POLITICS.
>> Woodruff: AND WE CLOSE WITH
THE STORY OF A SCIENTIFIC FIRST,
AS RESEARCHERS ANNOUNCED THEY
CLONED A BABY'S GENES TO CREATE
EMBRYONIC STEM CELLS.
>> Brown: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
STEPPED UP HIS EFFORTS TODAY TO
CALM A SERIES OF POLITICAL
STORMS.
AND WORD CAME THAT A SECOND
SENIOR I.R.S. OFFICIAL IS
STEPPING DOWN AFTER ADMISSIONS
THAT CONSERVATIVES CAME IN FOR
SPECIAL SCRUTINY.
THE PRESIDENT ADDRESSED THAT AND
OTHER ISSUES AT A RAIN-SPATTERED
APPEARANCE OUTSIDE THE WHITE
HOUSE.
THE OCCASION WAS A ROSE GARDEN
MEETING WITH REPORTERS, AND THE
PRIME MINISTER OF TURKEY WAS THE
GUEST OF HONOR, BUT MOST OF THE
QUESTIONS HAD TO DO WITH
DOMESTIC MATTERS.
FIRST AND FOREMOST, THE I.R.S.'S
TARGETING OF CONSERVATIVE
GROUPS.
>> IT DOESN'T MATTER WHETHER
YOU'RE A DEMOCRAT OR A
REPUBLICAN, YOU SHOULD BE
EQUALLY OUTRAGED AT EVEN THE
PROSPECT THAT THE I.R.S. MIGHT
NOT BE ACTING WITH THE KIND OF
COMPLETE NEUTRALITY THAT WE
EXPECT.
AND I THINK WE'RE GOING TO BE
ABLE TO FIX IT.
WE'RE GOING TO BE ABLE TO GET
THERE AND GET IT DONE.
WE'VE ALREADY BEGUN THAT PROCESS
AND WE'RE GOING TO KEEP ON GOING
UNTIL IT'S FINISHED.
>> Woodruff: NOT LONG AFTERWARD
CAME WORD THAT DANIEL WERFEL-- A
WHITE HOUSE BUDGET OFFICIAL-- IS
BEING NAMED ACTING COMMISSIONER
OF THE I.R.S.
THE PRESIDENT HAD ANNOUNCHE
FORCED RESIGNATION OF HIS
PREDECESSOR STEVEN MILLER ON
WEDNESDAY EVENING.
IN THEIR NAMES, WHEN THEY SOUGHT
TAX-EXEMPT STATUS.
THAT FOLLOWED REVELATIONS THAT
THE AGENCY HAD ZEROED IN ON
GROUPS WITH TEA PARTY OR PATRIOT
IN THEIR NAMES, WHEN THEY SOUGHT
TAX-EXEMPT STATUS.
IN CONGRESS TODAY, REPUBLICANS
WELCOMED MILLER'S DEPARTURE, BUT
THEY SAID THE INVESTIGATIONS
MUST CONTINUE.
KENTUCKY SENATOR RAND PAUL:
>> SOMEONE NEEDS TO BE HELD
RESPONSIBLE.
SOMEONE NEEDS TO BE IMPRISONED.
SOMEONE NEEDS TO BE PROSECUTED.
THE RESIGNATION IS A STEP IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION, BUT WE NEED TO
FIND OUT WHO WROTE THIS POLICY,
WHO APPROVED THIS POLICY, AND
THEY NEED TO BE HELD
ACCOUNTABLE.
>> Woodruff: BACK IN THE ROSE
GARDEN, THE PRESIDENT ALSO WAS
PRESSED ABOUT THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT'S SUBPOENA OF PHONE
RECORDS FROM THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS.
THE SEIZURES APPARENTLY WERE
PART OF AN INVESTIGATION INTO
LEAKS ABOUT A FOILED TERRORIST
PLOT.
MR. OBAMA VOICED SUPPORT FOR A
NEW MEDIA SHIELD LAW.
BUT HE SAID FREEDOM OF THE PRESS
MUST BE BALANCED AGAINST
NATIONAL SECURITY AS WELL.
>> WHEN I'VE STILL GOT 60,000-
PLUS TROOPS IN AFGHANISTAN AND
I'VE STILL GOT A WHOLE BUNCH OF
INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS AROUND THE
WORLD WHO ARE IN RISKY
SITUATIONS IN OUTPOSTS THAT IN
SOME CASES ARE AS DANGEROUS AS
THE OUTPOST IN BENGHAZI, THEN
PART OF MY JOB IS TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE'RE PROTECTING WHAT THEY
DO, WHILE STILL ACCOMMODATING
FOR THE NEED FOR INFORMATION OR
THE NEED FOR THE PUBLIC TO BE
INFORMED AND BE ABLE TO HOLD MY
OFFICE ACCOUNTABLE.
>> Woodruff: AND ON A THIRD
FRONT, THE WHITE HOUSE
IS TRYING TO DEFLATE CRITICISM
OF ITS RESPONSE TO LAST YEAR'S
ATTACKS ON U.S. DIPLOMATIC
FACILITIES IN BENGHAZI, LIBYA.
LAST NIGHT, OFFICIALS RELEASED
SOME 100 PAGES OF E-MAILS
RELATED TO THE INITIAL
ADMINISTRATION PUBLIC TALKING
POINTS, THAT EVENTUALLY DROPPED
ANY REFERENCE TO TERRORIST
THREATS OR AL QAEDA.
HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER SAID
TODAY IT'S A GOOD FIRST STEP,
BUT, HE SAID, THE ADMINISTRATION
MUST DO MORE.
>> WE HAVE A JOB TO GET TO THE
TRUTH.
AND THE ADMINISTRATION CAN MAKE
THIS A LOT EASIER BY DOING WHAT
THEY STARTED TO DO YESTERDAY,
TURNING OVER EMAILS FROM
BENGHAZI.
BUT THEY COULD MAKE THIS A LOT
SIMPLER BY BEING UP FRONT WITH
THE CONGRESS AND BEING UP FRONT
WITH THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: REPUBLICANS PROMISE
MORE HEARINGS ON ALL OF THIS,
STARTING TOMORROW WHEN A HOUSE
COMMITTEE WILL HEAR FROM THE
OUTGOING I.R.S. LEADER, STEVEN
MILLER.
FOR MORE, WE TURN TO WHITE HOUSE
COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR
JENNIFER PALMIERI.
WELCOME ON THE "NEWSHOUR."
AND FIRST ON THE I.R.S.,
REPUBLICANS ARE SAYING, YES,
IT'S FINE, THE PRESIDENT FORCING
THESE RESIGNATIONS, BUT THEY ARE
SAYING THERE HAS TO BE MORE.
THERE HAVE TO BE PROSECUTIONS.
PEOPLE NEED TO GO TO PRISON.
DOES THE PRESIDENT AGREE?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, THE STEPS
THAT HE HAS-- THAT HE'S TAKEN ON
THE I.R.S., YOU KNOW, FIRST
THING WE WANTED TO DO WAS TO LET
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL'S REPORT
CONCLUDE THAT INVESTIGATION.
THAT'S HAPPENED.
WE HAVE THE REPORT.
THERE'S A LOT OF DISTURBING--
THERE'S A LOT OF DISTURBING
FACTS ABOUT HOW THE PLACE WAS
MANAGED IN THAT REPORT, AND THE
PRESIDENT ASKED SECRETARY LEW,
SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, TO GO
BACK NOW AND FIGURE OUT EXACTLY
WHAT HAPPENED AND HOLD PEOPLE
WHO ARE ACCOUNTABLE ACCOUNTABLE
FOR THIS MISMANAGEMENT.
SO, THE FIRST ACTION WAS
SECRETARY LEW ASKED YESTERDAY
FOR THE ACTING COMMISSIONER'S
RESIGNATION AND RECEIVED THAT.
YOU KNOW THAT THERE WAS ANOTHE
ANOTHER-- THERE WAS ANOTHER
ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION ON
PERSONNEL THERE TODAY.
SO WE STILL THINK THAT THERE'S
MORE WORK TO BE DONE HERE ON OUR
END WITH THE WORK THAT SECRETARY
LEW WILL DO IN FOLLOWING THROUGH
ON THE-- WHAT THE I.G.POSITIV
I.G. RECOMMENDED.
I WILL NOTE, WE THINK CONGRESS--
HAS A LEGITIMATE OVERSIGHT ROLE
TO PLAY, AND WE WOULD
CERTAINLY-- WE WELCOME THAT AND
WE WILL CERTAINLY COOPERATE WITH
THAT BUT IT NEEDS TO STAY WITHIN
THE BOUNDS OF THE SUBSTANCE AND
KEEP THE POLITICS OUT OF IT.
>> Woodruff: SO DOES THE
PRESIDENT AGREE THERE SHOULD BE
PROSECUTIONS?
>> WELL, THE CONTINUAL, ERIC
HOLDER, HAS STARTED A CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATION, SO WE'LL LET THAT
PROCESS MOVE FORWARD AND LET
THEM MAKE WHATEVER APPROPRIATE
CONCLUSIONS THAT THEY MAKE.
BUT HE THINKS THAT-- BUT HE
DOES, OBVIOUSLY, THINK THAT
THERE'S A MANAGEMENT PROBLEM
HERE, APPEARED TO BE SYSTEMATIC.
THAT NEEDS TO GET ADDRESSED.
AND WE ARE-- SECRETARY LEW IS
MOVING QUICKLY ON THAT FRONT.
THIS IS AN ISSUE THAT-- WE
UNDERSTAND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
HAVE LEGITIMATE-- REAL
LEGITIMATE CONCERNS MAKING SURE
THAT THE I.R.S. IN PARTICULAR
WOULD NOT HAVE POLITICAL
MOTIVATIONS.
>> Woodruff: JENNIFER
PALMIERI, THE PRESIDENT IS NOT
ONLY BEING CRITICIZED FOR WHAT
HAS HAPPENED BUT ALSO FOR HOW
HE'S HANDLED IT, NOT JUST
REPUBLICANS BUT A NUMBER-- EVEN
DEMOCRATS ARE SAYING THE WHITE
HOUSE WAS SLOW TO RESPOND, THE
PRESIDENT HAS BEEN PASSIVE, NOT
PROACTIVE ENOUGH.
>> I KNOW THAT IT COMES WITH THE
TERRITORY WHEN YOU-- AS
PRESIDENT THAT A COUPLE OF
THINGS ARE GOING TO HAPPEN.
ONE IS THAT THERE'S GOING TO BE
UNFORTUNATE-- AS MUCH AS YOU TRY
TO PROTECT, UNFORTUNATE PROBLEMS
IN GOVERNMENT.
AND THE OTHER IS THAT THERE'S
GOING TO BE CONTROVERSIES THAT
ARISE.
AND AS SOMEONE WHO DOES
COMMUNICATIONS, I THINK YOU
ALWAYS WANT TO RESPOND QUICKLY
AND THAT IS YOUR FIRST INSTINCT.
BUT THE WORST THING YOU CAN
DOUGH IS RESPOND IN A WAY BEFORE
YOU HAVE THE FACTS OR RESPOND IN
A WAY THAT WOULD GET YOU INTO
MORE TROUBLE OVER THE LONG TERM.
SO IN THIS SITUATION, YOU KNOW,
WE HAD-- WE WANTED TO WAIT IN
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL CAME OUT
WITH THE REPORT FROM THE I.R.S.
SO WE ACTUALLY HAD SOME FACTS
BEFORE WE ACTED.
>> Woodruff: I HEAR YOU.
>> AND TO NOT HAVE DONE THAT FOR
US TO HAVE INTERVENED AHEAD OF
TIME, YOU KNOW, THAT'S WHERE YOU
GET INTO TROUBLE AND SO IT'S--
IT'S NOT WORTH GETTING AN
EIGHT-HOUR, 12-HOUR JUMP ON
MAKING NEWS ON AN ISSUE IF THE
CONSEQUENCE OF THAT IS YOU'RE
CREATING A LARGER PROBLEM THAT
YOU'RE DEALING WITH FOR YEARS.
AND, YOU KNOW, I'VE SEEN THAT
HAPPEN, CERTAINLY MANY TIMES
BEFORE.
SO WE WANTED TO GET IT RIGHT.
AND WE GOT IT RIGHT.
AND THE PRESIDENT HAS DEALT WITH
ALL-- YOU KNOW, THREE OF THESE
ISSUES THAT AROSE THIS WEEK, AND
MOST IMPORTAN I
BACK TO THE SUBSTANCE OF DEALING
WITH THE PROBLEM.
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK YOU,
THE PRESIDENT CLEARLY DOES HAVE
A BIG AGENDA FOR HIS SECOND
TERM.
HOW FRUSTRATED IS HE THAT ALL OF
THIS CONTROVERSY IS CLEARLY
DETRACTING, IF NOT UNDERMINING
HIS ABILITY TO GET THAT DONE?
>> LIKE I SAID, WE UNDERSTAND
THIS COMES WITH THE TERRITORY,
AND THERE'S ALWAYS GOING TO BE
SOME MEASURE OF DISTRACTION LIKE
THIS, AND WE FEEL THAT WE'RE
DEALING WITH IT.
DID WE HAVE A WEEK WHERE-- THAT
A LOT OF ATTENTION ON ISSUES
THAT WE HADN'T ANTICIPATED?
YES.
BUT DURING THAT WEEK, THE
PRESIDENT WAS ALSO MEETING ON
HOUSING.
HE HAD A MEETING WITH SENATOR
McCAIN YESTERDAY, TALKED ABOUT
IMMIGRATION REFORM.
WE HAD A MEETING TODAY ON
IMPLEMENTATION OF HEALTH CARE.
WE'RE CONTINUING TO WORK WITH
CONGRESS ON STUDENTAL BE GETTINN
BUT THE WORK OF THE COUNTRY IS
CONTINUING.
WE HAVE TO DEAL WITH THESE
ISSUES, AND WE ARE, AND WE THINK
THE ATTENTION WILL TURN BACK TO
THE ACTUAL WORK OF THE COUNTRY
THAT THE PRESIDENT IS FOCUSED
ON.
AND, YOU KNOW, IT COMES WITH THE
TERRITORY THAT YOU'RE GOING TO
HAVE TIMES WHERE YOU LOSE
ATTENTION TO OTHER UNEXPECTED
ISSUES.
>> Woodruff: THIS IS EVEN
THOUGH REPUBLICANS ARE SAYING
THEY'RE GOING TO KEEP AT THIS
FOR WEEKS TO COME THROUGH THE
SUMMER.
>> HOUSE REPUBLICANS HAVE DONE
THAT THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS.
CONGRESSMAN ISSA'S COMMITTEE HAS
HAD LOTS OF INVESTIGATIONS, LOTS
OF HEARINGS, AND WE COOPERATE AS
APPROPRIATE IN THOSE.
AND WE CONTINUE ON WITH OUR
BUSINESS.
SO WE ARE ABLE TO MANAGE THROUGH
THOSE-- THROUGH THOSE KINDS OF--
THOSE KINDS OF HEARINGSES AND
THAT KIND OF PROCESS.
AND YOU HAVE TO MANAGE THAT AND
YOU HAVE TO DEAL WITH IT.
BUT YOU HAVE TO STAY FOCUSED ON
THE MAIN HIGHWAY OF WHAT YOU'RE
ACTUALLY TRYING TO GET
ACCOMPLISHED, AND YOU HAVE TO BE
ABLE TO DO BOTH OF THOSE THINGS.
>> Woodruff: JENNIFER
PALMIERI, WHITE HOUSE
COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR, THANK
YOU.
>> THANKS, JUDY.
>> Brown: WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THE
WHITE HOUSE'S CHALLENGES WITH
TWO OUTSIDE VIEWS ON THE
PRESIDENT MANAGING CONTROVERSY.
ALSO AHEAD, A NEW PUSH TO END
THE SYRIAN CIVIL WAR, HOW
EVANGELICALS ARE RE-SHAPING THE
IMMIGRATION DEBATE AND A
SCIENTIFIC FIRST FOR STEM CELL
RESEARCH.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT IS BEING FAULTED FOR
FAILING TO ENSURE A SMALL NUMBER
OF TERROR SUSPECTS WERE ON THE
GOVERNMENT'S NO-FLY LIST.
THE DEPARTMENT'S INSPECTOR
GENERAL SAID TODAY THE ONCE
SUSPECTED TERRORISTS WERE IN THE
FEDERAL WITNESS PROTECTION
PROGRAM.
THEIR NEW IDENTITIES WEREN'T
SHARED WITH A TRACKING CENTER,
SO SOME WERE ALLOWED TO TAKE
COMMERCIAL FLIGHTS.
IN RESPONSE, THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT SAID IT HAS IMPOSED A
MORE RESTRICTIVE TRAVEL POLICY
FOR THE WITNESS PROGRAM.
THERE WAS TERROR IN TEXAS
OVERNIGHT FROM A POWERFUL STORM
SYSTEM.
TORNADOES KILLED AT LEAST SIX
PEOPLE, INJURED DOZENS AND LEFT
HUNDREDS HOMELESS.
IT WAS THE WORST OUTBREAK OF
SEVERE WEATHER THIS YEAR.
LAST NIGHT, DARK FUNNEL CLOUDS
APPEARED OVER NORTH CENTRAL
TEXAS, ACCOMPANIED BY HEAVY RAIN
AND HAIL THE SIZE OF GRAPEFRUIT.
>> I HEARD GLASS SHATTERING AND
I KNEW MY HOUSE WAS GONE.
AND WE LOOKED UP AND THEN, LIKE,
ON TOP OF THE BATHTUB THE WHOLE
CEILING WAS GONE.
AND THAT WAS WHEN WE KNEW WE
WERE, WE WERE PROBABLY GONE, WE
WERE IN TROUBLE.
>> Holman: ALL OF THOSE KILLED
WERE IN THE SMALL CITY OF
GRANBURY, ABOUT 40 MILES
SOUTHWEST OF FORT WORTH.
ABOUT 8:00 P.M., A TWISTER
DROPPED FROM THE SKY THERE WITH
WINDS UP TO 200 MILES AN HOUR
AND TORE UP TWO NEIGHBORHOODS,
HURLED CARS INTO TRAILERS AND
SPLINTERED TREES.
>> THERE IS NOTHING LEFT, I MEAN
OUR NEIGHBORHOOD IS GONE.
IT'S JUST GONE.
>> WINDOWS IN THE CARS ARE GONE,
BOTH OF OUCARSR  ARE MESSED UP.
I HAD A BIG SHOP, AIN'T A PIECE
OF IT LEFT NOW.
>> Holman: THERE ALSO WAS HEAVY
DAMAGE IN THE TOWN OF CLEBURNE.
ALL TOLD, THE NATIONAL WEATHER
SERVICES SAID UP TO TEN
TORNADOES STRUCK THE REGION.
THIS MORNING, WITH SEVERAL
THE SHERIFF OF HOOD COUNTY,
WHERE GRANBURY IS LOCATED, SPOKE
THIS AFTERNOON.
>> SEARCH MODE IS PRETTY MUCH
WINDING DOWN, AND WE'RE GOING
INTO A RECOVERY MODE NOW, BUT
WE'RE NOT GOING TO STOP
SEARCHING UNTIL EVERY PIECE OF
DEBRIS IS OVERTURNED AND WE CAN
MAKE SURE NOBODY IS THERE, NO
PETS, BEFORE WE START THE CLEAN
UP ON THIS.
>> Holman: AUTHORITIES WARNED
THAT THE DEATH TOLL STILL COULD
RISE AS THE SEARCH CONTINUES.
FEDERAL AND STATE OFFICIALS HAVE
NOT YET PINPOINTED THE CAUSE OF
LAST MONTH'S FERTILIZER PLANT
EXPLOSION AND FIRE
IN WEST, TEXAS.
BUT, THEY SAID TODAY, THEY'RE
NOT YET RULING OUT CRIMINAL
ACTIVITY.
14 PEOPLE DIED AT THE PLANT,
INCLUDING TEN FIRST RESPONDERS
AND TWO VOLUNTEERS FIGHTING THE
FIRE.
THE APRIL 17 BLAST LEVELED HOMES
AND EVEN REGISTERED AS A SMALL
EARTHQUAKE IN THE AREA.
IN WEST TODAY, OFFICIALS
REPORTED ON THEIR MONTH-LONG
INVESTIGATION.
>> THE CAUSE OF THIS FIRE IS
UNDETERMINED.
THE INVESTIGATION WILL REMAIN
OPEN AND WHEN THE CALLS CANNOT
BE PROVEN TO ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF
CERTAINTY-- AGAIN, ACCEPTABLE
LEVEL OF CERTAINTY.
THIS COULD BE DUE TO
INSUFFICIENT INFORMATION OR IF
MULTIPLE CAUSES COULD NOT BE
ELIMINATED.
>> OFFICIALS ALSO SAID THE PLANT
HAD 150 TONS OF HIGHLY EXPLOSIVE
AMMONIUM NITRATE ON SITE AT THE
TIME.
IT'S UNCLEAR HOW MUCH OF THE
MATERIAL ACTUALLY WAS ON THE
PREMISES.
IN AFGHANISTAN, A SUICIDE CAR
BOMBER PLOWED INTO A U.S. CONVOY
IN KABUL, KILLING AT LEAST 15
PEOPLE.
SIX WERE AMERICANS, TWO
SOLDIERS AND FOUR CIVILIAN
CONTRACTORS.
NINE AFGHAN CIVILIANS ALSO DIED,
INCLUDING TWO CHILDREN.
40 PEOPLE WERE INJURED.
THE FORCE OF THE BLAST
COMPLETELY MANGLED VEHICLES IN
THE CONVOY.
AND, IT WAS SO STRONG IT RATTLED
BUILDINGS ON THE OTHER SIDE OF
THE CAPITAL CITY.
THISLAE MIC MILITANT GROUP HIZB-
E-ISLAMI CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY.
SECTARIAN VIOLENCE IN IRAQ
CONTINUED WITH A WAVE OF
BOMBINGS AND SHOOTINGS TARGETING
SHI-ITES AND SUNNIS.
IN THE LAST 48 HOURS, MORE THAN
50 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KILLED.
TODAY, BOMBS EXPLODED IN SHI-ITE
NEIGHBORHOODS ACROSS BAGHDAD,
STRIKING A MARKET, A SHI-ITE
PRAYING AREA AND A BUS STOP AT
MORNING RUSH HOUR.
AT LEAST 21 IRAQIS WERE KILLED
TODAY.
MORE THAN 30 DIED IN ATTACKS ON
WEDNESDAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLED IN
PENTAGON LEADERS TODAY, AND
AFTERWARD, HE SAID THEY'RE
ASHAMED ABOUT THE FAILURE TO
STOP SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE
RANKS.
DEFENSE SECRETARY CHUCK HAGEL
AND THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
CHAIRMAN GENERAL MARTIN DEMPSEY
WERE THERE, ALONG WITH OTHERS.
DEMPSEY SAID TODAY THE ISSUE HAS
BECOME A CRISIS.
IN CONGRESS, A BIPARTISAN GROUP
OF SENATORS CALLED FOR REMOVING
COMMANDERS FROM DECIDING WHETHER
SEXUAL ASSAULT CHARGES ARE
PROSECUTED.
NEW YORK DEMOCRAT KIRSTEN
GILLIBRAND:
>> TODAY WE'RE STANDING ON A
UNITED FRONT TO TAKE ON THESE
THIS ISSUES ON WITH NEW
LEGISLATION THAT WILL
FUNDAMENTALLY REMOVE THE
DECISION MAKING FROM THE CHAIN
OF COMMAND AND GIVES THAT
DESCRETIONS TO AN EXPERIENCED
MILITARY PROSECUTOR WHERE IT
BELONGS.
>> Holman: THE PENTAGON
ESTIMATED LAST WEEK THERE WERE
SOME 26,000 CASES OF UNWANTED
SEXUAL CONTACT LAST YEAR.
MOST WENT UNREPORTED.
AND THIS WEEK, THERE WERE
ALLEGATIONS OF SEXUAL MISCONDUCT
AGAINST AN ARMY SERGEANT
WHOSE JOB WAS TO PREVENT SUCH
CRIMES.
THE U.S. HOUSE HAS VOTED TO
REPEAL THE PRESIDENT'S HEALTH
CARE REFORM LAW AGAIN.
IT WAS THE 37TH TIME THE
REPUBLICAN-LED HOUSE HAS MOVED
TO KILL THE LAW SINCE ITS
PASSAGE IN 2010.
AS BEFORE, THE TALLY WAS ALMOST
ENTIRELY DOWN PARTY LINES.
THE DEMOCRATIC-CONTROLLED SENATE
IS EXPECTED TO IGNORE THE BILL.
THE SENATE TODAY CONFIRMED
ERNEST MONIZ AS THE NEXT
SECRETARY OF ENERGY.
HE'S A NUCLEAR PHYSICIST AND A
FORMER ENERGY
UNDER-SECRETARY DURING THE
CLINTON ADMINISTRATION.
MEANWHILE, SENATE COMMITTEES
APPROVED THE NOMINATIONS OF GINA
McCARTHY TO HEAD THE
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY,
AND THOMAS PEREZ TO SERVE AS
SECRETARY OF LABOR.
THE NOMINATIONS NOW GO TO THE
FULL SENATE, WHERE BOTH MAY FACE
REPUBLICAN OPPOSITION.
WALL STREET GAVE BACK A LITTLE
GROUND TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 42 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,233.
THE NASDAQ FELL SIX POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,465.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JEFF.
>> Brown: WE RETURN TO OUR LOOK
AT THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
UNDER PRESSURE.
HOW DO COMMANDERS IN CHIEF DEAL
WITH CRISIS MANAGEMENT?
WE GET TAKES NOW FROM BOTH
PARTIES.
DEMOCRAT TOM PERRIELLO IS THE
PRESIDENT OF THE CENTER FOR
AMERICAN PROGRESS ACTION FUND.
HE SERVED AS A MEMBER OF
CONGRESS IN VIRGINIA BEFORE
LOSING HIS SEAT IN THE TEA PARTY
WAVE.
AND REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST AND
AUTHOR RON CHRISTIE, WHO WORKED
IN THE GEORGE W. BUSH WHITE
HOUSE ON CAPITOL HILL.
WELCOME TO BOTH OF YOU.
RON CHRISTIE, LET ME START WITH
YOU.
FIRST YOUR REACTION FROM WHAT WE
JUST HEARD FROM JENNIFER
PALMIERI.
>> I THINK THE WHITE HOUSE IS
TRYING TO PROJECT THEY'RE DOING
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
THE PROBLEM YOU HAVE WITH THE
SITUATION THAT I LEARNED IN MY
FOUR YEARS IN THE WHITE HOUSE
WHEN YOU HAVE THE MEDIA BUZZING
AROUND YOU LOOKING FOR ANANG OR
A PARTICULAR TAKE, IT'S REALLY
DIFFICULT TO GET THINGS
ACCOMPLISHED.
>> Brown: I SAID YOUR NAME
WRONG, PERRIELLO.
>> I'VE HEARD WORSE.
>> Brown: WHAT'S YOURESP RONSE
TO WHAT YOU HEARD?
>> AFTER A REALLY ROUGH START OF
THE WEEK I THINK YOU'VE SEEN AN
IMPRESSIVE COUPLE OF DAYS TRYING
TO SHOW THE PRESIDENT IS STILL
CONTINUING TO FOCUS ON VERY
IMPORTANT ISSUES, INCLUDING
HEADS OF STATES THAT ARE
VISITING.
YOU WANT TO NOT ERR IN EITHER
DIRECTION-- ONE, BECOME SO
OBSESSED WITH THE SCANDALS THAT
YOU STOP DOING OTHER THINGS, OR,
TWO, ACT LIKE ALL THE OTHER
THINGS ARE SO IMPORTANT YOU SEEM
TO NOT BE TAKING THE SCANDAL
SERIOUSLY.
I THINK WHAT YOU'VE SEEN HERE.
HE'S COME OUT.
HE'S BEEN IN FRONT OF THE
CAMERA.
HE'S MADE IT CLEAR TO HIS STAFF
AND THE COUNTRY THAT HE'S GOING
TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THIS AND
TAKING ACTIONS ACCORDINGLY AND I
THINK THAT'S WHY PEOPLE ARE
SEEING THIS POTENTIALLY AS A
SIGN OF LEADERSHIP AND THE
NO-DRAMA APPROACH PEOPLE EXPECT.
>> Brown: THE NO-DRAMA
APPROACH IN A WEEK OF DRAMA.
HOW DO YOU HANDLE A FULL CRISIS
MODE WITHOUT STOKING THE CRISIS?
>> I THINK WHAT TOM SAID IS
EXACTLY RIGHT.
IN A SITUATION LIKE, THIS THE
PRESIDENT NEEDS TO CONTINUE TO
GO OUT.
HE NEEDS TO CONTINUE TO TALK TO
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AND TO LAY
OUT HIS VIFGZ FRANKLY HOW HE'S
GOING TO MOVE BEYOND THIS SERIES
OF SCANDALS HE'S ENGULFED IN.
I THINK IF HE'S SUCCESSFUL IN
CONTINUING TO DO THAT PEOPLE
WILL LOOK TO HEM AND SAYS HE'S
LEADING, HE'S ACTUALLY MOVING
THE BALL FORWARD, BUT IF HE
DOESN'T, I THINK HE'S IN DANGER
OF BEING ENVELOPED BY WHAT'S
GOING ON AND THAT COULD TARNISH
HIS ABILITY TO GET SOMETHING
DONE IN THE SECOND TERM.
>> Brown: WHAT DO YOU SEE
HAPPENING SO FAR?
HE'S BEING HIT NOT JUST WITH ONE
BUT SEVERAL FRONTS.
>> I THINK IT'S TOO SOON TO SAY.
I CERTAINLY DO THINK IT'S A
DISTRACTION FOR THIS WHITE HOUSE
AND THE PRESIDENT BUT THE FACT
REMAINS THERE'S NO REAL SMOKING
GUN YET ON THE I.R.S. STORY.
THE AP STORY SEEMS TO BE A
LITTLE MORE OF AN INSIDE OF
THE-BELTED WAY LOOK.
I THINK THE ONE THAT WILL
RESONATE IS THE I.R.S.
I THINK FOLKS COULD SAY THE
I.R.S. COULD TARGET ME.
I THINK THAT IS THE ONE THAT
WILL RESONATE.
>> Brown: DO YOU AGREE?
>> I THINK WE KNOW BECAUSE THE
BENGHAZI CONVERSATION HAS BEEN
GOING ON FOR QUITE SOME TIME.
IT'S NOT ONE THAT HAS RESONATED
STRONGLY ACROSS THE COUNTRY, AND
THE RECENT E-MAILS SEEM TO
UNDERMINE THE DRAMATIC CLAIMS
MADE BY REPUBLICANS ON THE HILL.
SOIC PART OF WHAT THEY MAY DOING
DO IS TAKE ONE AT A TIME.
>> SAY HERE ARE THE FACTS.
LET'S OCTOBER WALKTHROUGH THIS
AND SEE WHAT'S REAL AND WHAT'S A
CLAIM.
I DO THINK THE I.R.S. IS
SOMETHING EVERYONE UNDERSTANDS.
NOT EVERYONE UNDERSTANDS WHAT IT
MEANS TO GO THROUGH A 501 C4
PROCESS, WHICH IS DIFFERENT FROM
WHAT PEOPLE HEAR, WHICH IS BEING
AUDITED AND TARGETED BY THE
I.R.S.
WE WILL SEE HOW THIS PLAYS OUT.
THIS IS OBVIOUSLY IN THE CONTEXT
WHERE YOU HAVE THIS TREMENDOUS
INFORMATION ABOUT SEXUAL ASSAULT
IN THE MILITARY.
VUT IMPACTS OF THE SEQUESTER,
AND MOST PEOPLE ARE GOING TO
LOOK ABOUT WHAT DOES THIS MEAN
IN MY LIFE IN TERMS OF JOCKS AND
THE ECONOMY, IS CONGRESS
FOCUSING ON THAT AND OTHER
THINGS?
I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE
IMPORTANT TO WALK THROUGH THESE
AND TAKE THEM VERY SERIOUSLY BUT
I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE
IMPORTANT FOR THE PRESIDENT AND
REPUBLICANS ON THE HILL NOT TO
BE SEEN AS FOCUSING ON THESE AT
THE EXPENSE OF THESE BREAD AND
BUTTER ISSUES FOR AMERICANS.
>> Brown: ON BENGHAZI, JUST TO
TAKE ONE EXAMPLE, YESTERDAY THE
WHITE HOUSE PUTS OUT ALL THESE
E-MAILS THAT REPUBLICANS HAD ,"
AND YET TODAY, WE SEE YOUR SIDE
SAYING GREAT, BUT HE NEEDS TO DO
MEASURE.
IS THERE EVER ENOUGH?
PEOPLE FROM THE WHITE HOUSE
COULD BE SAYING WHAT COULD WE
POSSIBLY DO TO ALLOW US TO MOVE
ON.
>> FIRST OF ALL, I DON'T THINK
IT'S ENOUGH.
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE NEED TON
WHAT THE THE PRESIDENT DOING
THAT NIGHT?
HE SAID WHEN PEE HEE FOUND OUT
HE IMMEDIATELY TOOK ACTION.
NUMBER TWO, WE DON'T KNOW WHAT
THE SECRETARY OF STATE WAS DOING
THAT NIGHT, EITHER.
WE KNOW SHE SPOKE TO MR. HICKS
AROUND 2:00 A.M. BENGHAZI TIME
AND SHE WASN'T AROUND WHEN HE
CALLED BACK TO REPORT THE DEATH
OF THE AMBASSADOR.
I THINK REPUBLICANS ARE GOING TO
CONTINUE TO PRESS.
THEY'RE GOING TO CONTINUE TO
LOOK FOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT
WHAT OUR LEADERS WERE DOING,
WHAT THEY SHOULD HAVE BEEN
DOING, AND WHERE THE BREAKDOWNS
TOOK PLACE.
>> Brown: AND YOU EXPECT THAT?
I MEAN, I GUESS THE WHITE HOUSE
EXPECTS THAT AS WELL?
>> SURE.
I THINK WHAT WE KNOW FROM THE
CONGRESS AND PARTICULARLY FROM
THE CHAIRMAN INVOLVED IS THERE'S
NO EXPECTATION THAT THIS WILL GO
AWAY OR DISAPPEAR.
I THINK THE QUESTION IS THE
INTEREST LEVEL AND WHETHER THE
RIGHT QUESTIONS ARE BEING ASKED.
THESE ARE IMPORTANT THINGS TO
GET TO THE BOTTOM OF.
BUT I ALSO THINK MOST AMERICANS
SAY, HEY ARE, WE MORE FOCUSED ON
THE TALKING POINTS FROM THE PAST
OR EMBASSY SECURITY GOING
FORWARD?
AND I THINK HOPEFULLY FROM ALL
OF THIS WE CAN HAVE PROACTIVE
CONVERSATIONS IN EACH OF THESE
CASES ABOUT WHERE FAILURES
OCCURRED, WHETHER IT WAS IN
DIPLOMATIC SECURITY OR
MANAGEMENT INDEPENDENT I.R.S.,
WHAT'S A PROACTIVE STRATEGY TO
MAKE THIS NOT HAPPEN AGAIN AND I
THINK AMERICANS WILL BE MORE
INTERESTED IN FOCUSING ON HOW DO
WE SOLVE THESE PROBLEMS,
PROBLEMS THAT AFFECT ME, THAN
HOW DO WE SCORE POINT--
>> Brown: YOU'RE BOTH TALKING
ABOUT PROBLEM SOLVING AND NOT
SCORING POINTS, BUT THE CONTEXT
HERE-- WE WERE TALKING ABOUT
THIS EARLIER TODAY IN OUR
EDITORIAL MEETING, THINKING
ABOUT PAST MOMENTS LIKE THIS.
BUT NOW YOU HAVE A 24-HOUR NEWS
CYCLE.
YOU HAVE CONSTANT TALK.
YOU HAVE THE WHITE HOUSE FEELING
THE PRESSURE AT EVERY MOMENT.
SO THAT'S THE CONTEXT HERE.
AND YOU GUYS ARE PART OF IT,
TOO, RIGHT.
( LAUGHTER )
>> WE'RE GUILTY AS CHARGED,
UNFORTUNATELY.
NO, MY ADVICE TO THIS WHITE
HOUSE AND THIS ADMINISTRATION IN
ORDER FOR THESE SORTS OF THINGS
TO STOP IS TO BE AS TRANSPARENT
AS POSSIBLE TO PUT OUT AS MUCH
INFORMATION AS POSSIBLE.
IF IT CONTINUES TO DRIP OUT, I
THINK THEY'RE GOING TO CONTINUE
TO FIND THEMSELVES ENGULFED IN
THIS, AND THAT'S MY ADVICE GET
IT OUT AND LET THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE DECIDE.
>> Brown: SO THE QUESTION OF--
THERE'S THE SECOND TERM
QUESTION, RIGHT, OFTEN THIS KIND
OF THING HAPPENS.
AND THEN LOOSE THE LARGER AGENDA
OF A SECOND TERM.
YOU'RE SUGGESTING THAT HE STILL
HAS THE ABILITY TO CARRY OUT
WHAT HE WANTS TO DO.
UHINK THAT'S GOING TO
BE THE QUESTION.
THERE'S THIS POTENTIAL THEORY
HERE WHERE CONSERVATIVES WERE
ABLE TO SCORE POINTS WITH THEIR
BASE FROM SOME OF THESE THINGS
AND MAYBE HAVE MORE ROOM ON
ISSUES LIKE THE BUDGET AND
ISSUES LIKE IMMIGRATION REFORM
BUT WE'LL SEE.
I THINK THIS IS GOING TO BE A
QUESTION OF STATESMANSHIP AND
LEADERSHIP ON BOTH SIDES OF
PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE.
I CERTAINLY THINK THE PRESIDENT
SHOULD BE COMMITTED AND I
BELIEVE HE IS COMMITTED TO
CONTINUING TO FOCUS ON
INCREDIBLY SERIOUS ISSUES FROM
THE ECONOMY TO SYRIA TO OTHER
NATIONAL SECURITY THREATS.
I THINK THAT THEIR CHALLENGE IS
GOING TO BE TO BOTH SHOW THAT
THEY'RE CLEARLY ADDRESSING THIS
AND I THINK THEY'VE SET A VERY
STRONG TONE ON THAT IN THE LAST
COUPLE OF DAYS AND NOT LOSING
SIEFT THESE THINGS THAT ARE THE
PRIORITIES FOR THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
>> Brown: IS THERE ONE-- LAST
WORD HERE-- CENTER AN AREA YOU
THINK THERE MIGHT BE A FOCUS
WHERE BOTH SIDES MIGHT COME
TOGETHER TO GET SOMETHING DONE?
>> I DO.
I THINK TOM IS RIGHT.
I THINK THE BUDGET ISSUES FACING
THIS COUNTRY ARE REALLY, REALLY,
AN IMPORTANT ISSUE TO FOCUS ON
AND I THINK THERE'S WILLINGNESS
BY THE ADMINISTRATION ON ONE
SIDE AND CONGRESSIONAL
REPUBLICANS TO COME TOGETHER AND
FIND A DEAL AND IMMIGRATION.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT RON
CHRISTIE, AND TOM PERRIELLO,
WE'LL END ON A HIGH NOTE.
>> WE CAN AGREE, ANYWAY.
>> Brown: THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: DESPITE THE SWIRL
SURROUNDING THE I.R.S., REPORTER
PHONE RECORDS AND BENGHAZI
TALKING POINTS, THE ISSUE OF
WHAT TO DO ABOUT SYRIA TOOK
CENTER STAGE DURING THE
PRESIDENT'S MEETING WITH TURKISH
PRIME MINISTER ERDOGAN TODAY.
MARGARET WARNER REPORTS.
WARNING THIS STORY CONTAINS SOME
GRAPHIC IMAGES.
>> Warner: THE RAIN TODAY DIDN'T
SEEM TO DAMPEN THE PUBLIC UNITY
OF THE PRESIDENT AND THE TURKISH
PRIME MINISTER ON SYRIA.
>> WE BOTH AGREE THAT ASSAD
NEEDS TO GO.
HE NEEDS TO TRANSFER POWER TO A
TRANSITIONAL BODY.
THAT IS THE ONLY WAY WE'RE GOING
TO RESOLVE THIS CRISIS.
>> (translated): WE ALSO AGREE
THAT WE HAVE TO PREVENT SYRIA
FROM BECOMING AN AREA FOR
TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS.
WE ALSO AGREE THAT CHEMICAL
WEAPONS SHOULD NOT BE USED AND
ALL MINORITIES AND THEIR RIGHTS
SHOULD BE SECURED.
>> Warner: BUT TURKEY HAS BEEN
PUSHING THE U.S., NATO AND THE
UNITED NATIONS, PUBLICLY AND
PRIVATELY, FOR TOUGHER ACTION TO
STOP THE CARNAGE AND AGAIN AFTER
BOMBS KILLED 51 PEOPLE IN THE
TURKISH BORDER TOWN OF REYHANLI
ON SATURDAY.
REYHANLI IS HOME TO 60,000
SYRIAN REFUGEES, AMONG THE MORE
THAN 400,000 SYRIANS WHO HAVE
FLED TO TURKEY.
THE PRIME MINISTER HAS CHARGED
THE BOMBINGS WERE LINKED TO THE
SYRIAN REGIME, WHICH DAMASCUS
DENIES.
IN THE MEANTIME, THE U.S. AND
RUSSIA ARE PUSHING FOR A PEACE
CONFERENCE IN GENEVA.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
SPOKE ABOUT THE PROSPECT
YESTERDAY IN SWEDEN.
>> EACH OF US HAS AGREED TO WORK
VERY HARD WITH RESPECT TO THE
PEOPLE WE'RE IN TOUCH WITH THE
FOREIGN MINISTERS, THE
OPPOSITION, THE SYRIAN PRESIDENT
BASHAR ASSAD REGIME AND OTHERS
IN ORDER TO BRING THE PARTIES TO
THE TABLE.
>> Warner: BUT THAT SAME DAY, ON
NPR, SYRIA'S VICE MINISTER OF
FOREIGN AFFAIRS SAID THE
GOVERNMENT WOULD NEVER AGREE TO
THE DEMAND THAT ASSAD BE OUSTED.
>> THE REPLACEMENT OF PRESIDENT
ASSAD MEANS DESTRUCTION OF
SYRIA, MEANS NO INTERNATIONAL
CONFERENCE, AND MEANS SUPPORT OF
TERRORISM.
IF THIS IS THE OBJECTIVE OF THE
CONFERENCE, THEN THERE WILL BE
NO CONFERENCE.
>> Warner: ALL OF THIS COMES
AMID SIGNS OF RECENT GAINS BY
THE SYRIAN ARMY.
THIS WEEK, REGIME FORCES TOOK
CONTROL OF A STRATEGIC TOWN NEAR
THE HIGHWAY THAT LINKS DAMASCUS
WITH JORDAN.
SUCH ADVANCES PUT NEW PRESSURE
ON THE U.S. TO ASSIST THE REBELS
MILITARILY.
BUT BALANCED AGAINST THAT IS NEW
EVIDENCE THAT BOTH SIDES ARE
COMMITTING ATROCITIES.
REBELS SAY THIS AMATEUR VIDEO
SHOWS 20 MEMBERS OF ONE FAMILY
KILLED BY GOVERNMENT FORCES--
VICTIMS OF MASS EXECUTIONS IN
THE TOWN OF BANIYAS.
WHILE THIS VIDEO SHOWS REBELS
EXECUTING THREE SYRIAN OFFICERS
IN APPARENT RETALIATION.
ALL OF WHICH HAD PRESIDENT OBAMA
SAYING TODAY THAT THE WAY
FORWARD IN SYRIA IS ANYTHING BUT
CLEAR.
>> THERE'S NO MAGIC FORMULA FOR
DEALING WITH AN EXTRAORDINARILY
VIOLENT AND DIFFICULT SITUATION
LIKE SYRIA'S.
IF THERE WAS I THINK THE PRIME
MINISTER AND I WOULD HAVE
ALREADY ACTED ON IT AND IT WOULD
ALREADY BE FINISHED.
>> Warner: FOR NOW, THE
PRESIDENT SAID, THE U.S. WILL
PURSUE THE CONFERENCE, WHILE
MAINTAIN PRESSURE ON ASSAD, AND
WORKING WITH THE OPPOSITION.
FOR MORE ON THIS I'M JOINED BY
HENRI BARKEY, A SPECIALIST IN
TURKISH AFFAIRS AND A FORMER
STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL IN THE
CLINTON ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S A PROFESSOR AT LEHIGH
UNIVERSITY.
AND STEVE HEYDEMANN, SENIOR
ADVISER FOR MIDDLE EAST
INITIATIVES AT THE UNITED STATES
INSTITUTE FOR PEACE.
AND WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
FIRST OF ALL, YOU'RE EXPERIENCED
TURKEY WATCHERS.
YOU WATCHED THIS PRESS
CONFERENCE.
HOW DID YOU READ WHAT THESE TWO
LEADERS HAD TO SAY, AND ALSO
FROM WHAT YOU'VE BEEN ABLE TO
ASSESS THIS AFTERNOON IN TERMS
WHEOFTHER THEY CAME ANY CLOSER
TO NARROWING THE GAP HOW TO GO
FORWARD IN SYRIA.
STEVE HEYDEMANN, WHY DON'T YOU
START?
>> MY SENSE IS WHEN PRIME
MINISTER ERDOGAN ARRIVED THERE
WERE A NUMBER OF ISSUES THAT
COULD HAVE MADE THESE TALKS
FAIRLY CONTENTIOUS.
WE EXPECTED THE PRIME MINISTER
TOO PUSH THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION ON A NO-FLY ZONE.
WE THOUGHT HE MIGHT WELL REQUEST
MORE AGGRESSIVE U.S. POLICY IN
DEALING WITH SYRIA.
THERE WERE ALSO CONCERNS ABOUT
THE TERMS OF A NEGOTIATION, AND
PRIME MINISTER ERDOGAN STUCK TO
THE POSITION THAT ASSAD'S
REMOVAL NEEDED TO HAPPEN BEFORE
CONDITIONS COULD BEGIN.
HE BACKED AWAY FROM EVERY SINGLE
ONE OF THOSE POSITIONS.
AND IT SEEMED TO ME AS IF PRIME
MINISTER ERDOGAN WAS BENDING
OVER BACKWARDS TO COOPERATE,
TOINAR OAT DIFFERENCES BETWEEN
TURKET AND UNITED STATES, AND TO
BROADEN THE POSSIBILITIES FOR
COOPERATION BETWEEN THEM.
THE NO-FLY ZONE WAS NOT
MENTIONED.
HE SEEMS NOW TO AGREE ASSAD'S
REMOVAL SHOULD NOT BE A
PRECONDITION DISPLARG FOR
TALKSES.
>> FOR TALKS, AND IT SEEMS HE IS
NO LONGER PUSHING THE U.S. TO
TAKE A MORE ACTIVE ROLE
NONETHELESS POLICY TOWARDS
SYRIA.
SO I SAW THIS AS AN INTERESTING
SHIFT ON THE PART OF THE TURKISH
GOVERNMENT.
>> Warner: HENRI BARKEY, HOW
DO YOU READ THE BODY LANGUAGE
AND LANGUAGE?
THE BODY LANGUAGE SEEMED LIKE HE
WAS HAVING FUN BUT AS TIME WENT
BY HE SEEMED AS IF HE WAS NOT
VERY HAPPY TODAY.
I THINK HE DIDN'T GET WHAT HE
WANTED.
HE HAD-- HE DID LAUNCH KIND OF
THE REQUEST EARLIER, ABOUT THE
NO-FLY ZONE, AND I THINK WHAT
THE PRESIDENT BASICALLY TOLD
HIM, FIRST OF ALL, THERE, WILL
NEVER BE ANY BOOTS ON THE
GROUND, AMERICAN BOOTS, AND
SECONDLY, THE NO-FLY ZONE IS ONE
OF THESE QUAGMIRES ONCE YOU GET
IN IT'S VERY HARD TO GET OUT,
AND THE PEOPLE WHO WANT THE
UNITED STATES TO GET IN TWO
WEEKS LATER WILL SAY, "YOU
HAVEN'T ACHIEVED ANYTHING.
YOU HAVEN'T COMPLETED ANYTHING."
SO I THINK ERDOGAN NOW
UNDERSTANDS.
THE ONE PLACE WHERE THERE MAY BE
SOME NEW THINKING ON THE PART OF
THE TURKS IS WITH RESPECT TO THE
ALNIEWS RAAND FUNDAMENTAL FORCES
--
>> Warner: THAT'S THE
AL QAEDA-LINKED FORCES.
>> TODAY, THERE IS A STORY OF
QATARIES HAVE SPENT $3 BILLION
TO SUPPORT THE SYRIAN
OPPOSITION, AND BETWEEN THE
QATARS AND CURKS, THEY HAVE
GIVEN THE ALNURRA FRONT.
>> Warner: WHAT IS THE
SITUATION ON THE GROUND?
STEVE HEYDEMANN, DO YOU AGREE
WITH RECEIPT REPORTS THAT IN
FACT THE SYRIAN FORCES HAVE BEEN
GAINING MOMENTUM?
IF SO, WHERE AND WHY?
>> THE SYRIAN MILITARY SUPPORTED
BY FORCES FROM HEZBOLLAH --
>HEZBOLLAH--
>> Warner: FROM LEBANON.
>> WITH A GREAT DEAL OF
ASSISTANCE FROM IRAN, TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE FROM IRAN HAS BEEN
ABLE TO RECAPTURE A NUMBER OF
IMPORTANT STRATEGIC LOCATIONS
ALONG AN URBAN CORRIDOR THAT THE
REGIME VIEWS AS CRITICAL FOR ITS
LONG-TERM SURVIVAL.
THEY HAVE MOUNTED BRAIGZS IN
BANIAS, ALONG THE COAST, SOME OF
WHICH HAVE RESULTED IN HORRIFIC
MASSACRES THAT HAVE DRAWN
SIGNIFICANT ATTENTION GLOBALLY.
BUT I VIEW THIS AS PART OF AN
EFFORT ON THE PART OF THE ASSAD
REGIME TO ENSURE IT CAN SECURE
THOSE AREAS OF SYRIA THAT ARE
ESSENTIAL FOR THE RESPLIEF ITS
TROOPS, FOR ITS ACCESS TO
LEBANON, AND FOR IRAN TO REMAIN
ABLE TO ACCESS LEBANON THROUGH
SYRIA IN ORDER TO RESUPPLY
HEZBOLLAH AND ENSURE HEZBOLLAH'S
CAPABILITY.
FOR A VARIETY OF REASONS I THINK
WE'VE SEEN A CONCERTED TO PUSH
THEM OUT OF AREAS THE REGIME
VIEWS AS CRITICAL.
>> Warner: THE REGIME HAS
MILITIAS THEY'VE BEEFED UP.
HAVE THEY BEEN A TREMENDOUS
ASSET TO THEM, IN MAYBE A
HORRIFIC WAY?
>> LOOK, I THINK THESE KIND OF
CONFLICTS GO THROUGH ALL KINDS
OF CYCLES.
AT THE BEGINNING OF IT THE
OPPOSITION THAT HAD THE UPPER
HAND, AND THE SYRIAN ARMY AND
WITH THE HELP OF HEZBOLLAH,
STEVE SAID, HAVE LEARNED THE
LESSONS AND ARE NOW FIGHTING
BACK.
AND IT'S UP TO THE OPPOSITION TO
LEARN ITS LESSONS FROM THIS.
THE OPPOSITION NEEDS TO GET
ITSELF ORGANIZED AND JOIN FORCES
AND HAVE SOME KIND OF COMMAND
STRUCTURE THAT CAN RESPOND.
I THINK EVENTUALLY THEY WILL
LEARN, ALSO, FROM THEIR
MISTAKES, AND YOU WILL SEE THIS
CONFLICT, UNFORTUNATELY, GO--
SHIFT FROM ONE SIDE TO ANOTHER.
>> Warner: NOW, THE U.S. AND
RUSSIA SEEM TO HAVE COME
TOGETHER-- TALKING ABOUT THE
PROSPECTS FOR NEGOTIATING A
PEACEFUL TRANSITION.
DO YOU THINK-- SECRETARY KERRY
WAS IN RUSSIA I THINK LAST WEEK,
PRIME MINISTER CAMERON FROM
BRITAIN.
DO YOU THINK THE PROSPECTS FOR
THAT HAVE IMPROVED AT ALL?
WHAT DO YOU THINK THE PROSPECTS
ARE?
>> I PERSONALLY THINK THE
PROSPECTS ARE ACTUALLY WORSE NOW
PRECISELY FOR THE REASONS STEVE
WAS MENTIONING, THAT ASSADPPER O
HE HAS VERY LITTLE INCENTIVE TO
NEGOTIATE.
WHAT HE WILL PROBABLY DO-- AND
FIWERE HIM I WOULD DO THE SAME
THING EYE WOULD PRETEND TO
PARTICIPATE.
THERE IS A PRICE TO PAY IF YOU
DON'T PARTICIPATE IN ONE WAY OR
ANOTHER SO YOU HAVE TO PRETEND.
LET'S FACE IT.
THIS IS A CHARADE AND IT HAS TO
WORK ITSELF OUT.
AND IT'S ONL ONLY AFTER IT FAILS
THAT YOU WILL SEE OTHERS
ESSENTIALLY TAKING MUCH MORE
EXPLICIT POSITIONS ON THE SYRIAN
CONFLICT.
>> I WOULD AGREE.
I THINK WE FIND THAT RUSSIA AND
THE UNITED STATES HAVE NOT YET
REACHED AGREEMENT WHAT THAT
NEGOTIATING FRAMEWORK WOULD LOOK
LIKE, AND BOTH OPPOSITION AND
THE REGIME HAVE NOW BEGUN TO
IMPOSE COP CONSCIENCES ON THEIR
PARTICIPATION.
>> Warner: YOU DON'T TAKE AT
FACE VALUE, RUSSIA WILLING TO
PRESS THE ASSAD REGIME, AND,
CLEARLY, PRESIDENT OBAMA IS
ASKING QATAR, TURKEY, AND SAUDI
ARABIA, WHO ALSO SUPPORT THE
REBELS, TO PUT PRESSURE ON THEM
TO ATTEND.
>> I THINK THERE IS A SENSE OF
URGENCY, ESPECIALLY IN
WASHINGTON, ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE
OF GETTING THESE NEGOTIATIONS
LAUNCHED.
THE U.S. IS WATCHING THIS
CONFLICT GROW AND EXPAND, SPILL
OVER BEYOND SYRIA'S BORDERS, AND
LEAD TO VIOLENCE IN EVERY ONE OF
THE NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES.
IT'S WATCHING THE HUMANITARIAN
CATASTROPHE IN SYRIA ESCALATE AT
AN ENORMOUS SCALE.
AND I THINK THAT IS GIVING THEM
A VERY COMPELLING SENSE THAT
THEY NEED TO GET A POLITICAL
PROCESS LAUNCHED GLERG STEVE
HEYDEMANN AND HENRI BARKEY,
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, WE CONTINUE
OUR EXAMINATION OF IMMIGRATION
REFORM AS LAWMAKERS CONSIDER
LEGISLATION TO OVERHAUL THE
SYSTEM IN WASHINGTON.
RAY SUAREZ HAS OUR REPORT FROM
COLORADO, EXPLORING HOW THE
EVANGELICAL COMMUNITY IS
ADVOCATING FOR CHANGING HOW THE
COUNTRY HANDLES UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS.
(SINGING)
>> Reporter: IT LOOKS LIKE A
TYPICAL EVANGELICAL CHURCH
SERVICE WITH MODERN SONGS OF
WORSHIP, GUITARS STRUMMING, ARMS
RAISED IN PRAISE.
BUT LISTEN CLOSELY, THE WORDS
ARE SOMETIMES IN ENGLISH,
SOMETIMES IN SPANISH.
THIS IS IMMANUEL FELLOWSHIP
CHURCH IN FRISCO, COLORADO.
FRISCO IS A MOUNTAIN RESORT
TOWN.
THE LATINO POPULATION HAS
ZOOMED, UP 70% OVER THE LAST TEN
YEARS, AS IMMIGRANTS COME,
LOOKING FOR SERVICE INDUSTRY
JOBS.
THE DEMOGRAPHIC SHIFT IS
REFLECTED IN THE PEWS AT
IMMANUEL, NOW HALF ANGLO, HALF
HISPANIC.
LATINOS ARE MOVING STEADILY FROM
THEIR CENTURIES-LONG HOME IN THE
CATHOLIC CHURCH TOWARD
EVANGELICAL CONGREGATIONS LIKE
THIS ONE.
ALL ACROSS THE U.S. THAT SHIFT
IS TRANSFORMING WHAT HAD ALWAYS
BEEN WHITE, ENGLISH-SPEAKING
CONGREGATIONS.
ERICK LUNA, WAS RAISED CATHOLIC
IN EL SALVADOR, BUT IS NOW A
MINISTER OF MUSIC AT IMMANUEL.
>> IT'S REALLY BEAUTIFUL.
IT'S LIKE A MARRIAGE WHEN TWO
DIFFERENT PEOPLE COME TOGETHER
AND START A FAMILY AND EVEN WITH
OUR DIFFERENCES, WE COME
TOGETHER TO GLORIFY OUR GOD.
>> Reporter: THAT MARRIAGE OF
TWO CULTURES HAS AT THE SAME
TIME PROMPTED CONGREGATIONS TO
RETHINK POLITICAL QUESTIONS:
MANY EVANGELICAL CONGREGATIONS
ARE PUTTING NEW EMPHASIS ON
BIBLICAL COMMANDS TO WELCOME THE
STRANGER, AND HOW THEY MAY
REFRAME THE HOT DEBATE OVER
IMMIGRATION REFORM.
PASTOR MIKE PHILLIPS SAYS HE
NORMALLY DOESN'T GET INVOLVED IN
POLITICAL ISSUES, BUT FOR HIM,
IMMIGRATION IS A MORAL ISSUE.
>> I THINK THE CHURCH HAS ALWAYS
APPRECIATED, YEAH, WE NEED TO BE
A CHAMPION FOR THE ORPHAN, FOR
THE WIDOW.
BUT PEOPLE ARE SURPRISED WHEN IT
SAY IN THE SAME PASSAGES, THE
IMMIGRANT, TOO.
WE HAVE A BIBLICAL
RESPONSIBILITY.
>> Reporter: PHILIPS RECENTLY
JOINED HUNDREDS OF OTHER
EVANGELICAL LEADERS ON A TRIP TO
WASHINGTON TO BRING THOSE
CONCERNS TO MEMBERS OF CONGRESS.
THE GROUP, CALLED THE
EVANGELICAL IMMIGRATION TABLE,
WAS FORMED A YEAR AGO AND
INCLUDES LEADERS FROM ACROSS THE
POLITICAL SPECTRUM; FROM THE
LEFT-LEANING SOJOURNERS TO THE
CONSERVATIVE SOUTHERN BAPTIST
CONVENTION.
>> I WAS A STRANGER.
I WAS A STRANGER.
I  WAS A STRANGER AND YOU
WELCOMED ME.
I WAS SICK.
>> Reporter: THE ORGANIZATION
LAUNCHED A NATIONAL VIDEO
CAMPAIGN, HELD WORKSHOPS AND
SEMINARS AND IS ENCOURAGING
CHURCH MEMBERS TO ENGAGE ON THE
ISSUE.
MARK WEAVER OF FORT COLLINS,
COLORADO SAYS BIBLE STUDY HAS
BROUGHT A RADICAL CHANGE IN HIS
THINKING.
TEN YEARS AGO, HE WAS A
BUSINESSMAN LOBBYING FOR TOUGHER
SANCTIONS AGAINST UNDOCUMENTED
WORKERS, NOW HE'S ORGANIZING
IMMIGRANT WORSHIP SERVICES LIKE
THIS ONE.
AND HE'S URGING CONGRESS TO BE
MORE COMPASSIONATE.
>> THERE ARE PEOPLE'S LIVES AT
STAKE AND THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO
ARE HURT BY OUR IMMIGRATION
SYSTEM, BROKEN UP BY OUR
IMMIGRATION SYSTEM.
THERE ARE ALL KINDS OF STORIES
OUT THERE AND IF YOU TAKE TIME
TO LISTEN TO THEM, IT'S HARD NOT
TO ENGAGE ON A COMPASSIONATE
LEVEL.
I THINK THIS IS A MORAL ISSUE. I
DO THINK IF YOU WELCOME THE
STRANGER AND TREAT HIM AS YOU
WOULD TREAT JESUS, IT THROWS
THINGS INTO A WHOLE DIFFERENT
LIGHT AND MESSES UP YOUR
POLITICS.
>> Reporter: BUT THERE'S NOT
SOME NEW UNIVERSAL AGREEMENT
AMONG CHRISTIANS ON IMMIGRATION
REFORM OR A BELIEF THAT THE
BIBLE CAN, OR SHOULD, BE USED TO
JUSTIFY ONE APPROACH OR ANOTHER
TO POLICYMAKING.
MARK TOOLEY DIRECTS THE
INSTITUTE ON RELIGION AND
DEMOCRACY, A CONSERVATIVE
RELIGIOUS THINK TANK.
>> IT'S VERY PROBLEMATIC WHEN
PEOPLE OF FAITH START TO CLAIM
THAT THE BIBLE GIVES A VERY
DIRECT GUIDANCE ON A PARTICULAR
CONTEMPORARY POLITICAL ISSUE.
BECAUSE THE BIBLE PRIMARILY IS
NOT A POLITICAL PLATFORM AND IT
>> Reporter: TOOLEY POINTS OUT
THAT EVANGELICALS PUSHING FOR A
MORE WELCOMING POLICY HAVE
GOTTEN LOTS OF MEDIA ATTENTION,
BUT HE'S NOT SURE THAT
TRANSLATES INTO CHURCH MEMBER
SUPPORT.
>> I THINK BY AND LARGE THE
ADVOCACY FOR IMMIGRATION
SLATION IS COMING FROM MANY
OF THE ELITES OF THE EVANGELICAL
MOVEMENT, AND AS THEY THEMSELVES
OFTEN ACKNOWLEDGE, ONE OF THEIR
BIGGEST OBSTACLES IS PERSUADING
THEIR OWN CONSTITUENCY.
>> Reporter: A RECENT POLL BY
THE PEW RESEARCH CENTER SHOWS A
MAJORITY OF EVANGELICALS, 62%,
THINK THERE SHOULD BE A WAY FOR
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS TO BE
ALLOWED TO STAY IN THIS COUNTRY.
THAT NUMBER TRAILS GENERAL
PUBLIC SUPPORT, WHICH STANDS AT
71%.
>> IN LEVITICUS CHAPTER 19: "THE
FOREIGNER LIVING WITH YOU MUST
BE TREATED AS ONE OF YOUR NATIVE
BORN."
>> Reporter: PASTOR MIKE
HARRISON TAKES A MIDDLE GROUND
APPROACH.
AS A PASTOR OF A MOSTLY WHITE,
DENVER SUBURBAN CHURCH, HIS OWN
VIEWS HAVE SHIFTED AFTER WORKING
AND WORSHIPPING WITH A LATINO
CONGREGATION THAT USES HIS
CHURCH.
>> THE MOST SIGNIFICANT PART OF
THAT IS THE PERSONAL
RELATIONSHIP YOU DEVELOP AND YOU
GET TO KNOW PEOPLE'S STORIES AND
YOU GET TO UNDERSTAND WHAT IT'S
LIKE BEING HERE IN AMERICA.
>> Reporter: HIS COLLEAGUE,
PASTOR FRANCISCO MENDEZ, SAYS AS
THOSE PERSONAL RELATIONSHIPS
DEVELOP, ISSUES LIKE LEGAL
STATUS BECOME LESS IMPORTANT.
>> EVERY HUMAN BEING HAS THE
SAME VALUE FOR US.
IT DOESN'T MAKE ANY DIFFERENCE
IF THEY ARE UNDOCUMENTED OR
DOCUMENTED.
FOR ME THEY ARE THE SAME AND
HAVE THE SAME VALUE.
>> Reporter: STILL, HARRISON
SAYS THE IMMIGRATION REFORM
ISSUE IS A COMPLICATED ONE AND
HE DOESN'T BELIEVE CHURCHES
SHOULD ADVOCATE FOR SPECIFIC
LEGISLATION.
>> WE REALLY WORK HARD WITHIN
OUR CHURCH TO DEPOLITICIZE AND
NOT ACTUALLY TAKE THOSE
POLITICAL, PARTISAN VIEWS ON
ISSUES.
IT'S THE CITIZEN'S ROLE TO
ACTIVELY INFLUENCE OUR POLITICAL
PEOPLE.
SO I WOULD LOVE FOR OUR MEMBERS
OF OUR CHURCH, WHO CARE ABOUT
THIS, I WOULD LOVE FOR THEM TO
CONTACT THEIR REPRESENTATIVES.
BUT I BELIEVE THAT IS A JOB OF
THE CITIZENS OF OUR NATION, NOT
NECESSARILY OF THE CHURCHES OF
OUR NATION.
>> Reporter: THAT SENTIMENT IS
NOT DISSUADING LEADERS OF THE
EVANGELICAL IMMIGRATION TABLE.
EARLIER THIS MONTH, THE GROUP
LAUNCHED A THREE-MONTH PRAYER
CHALLENGE FOR CHURCHES, URGING
PASSAGE OF IMMIGRATION REFORM.
>> Brown: FINALLY, A MAJOR
ADVANCE IN STEM CELL WORK, BUT
ONE THAT ONCE AGAIN RAISES
ETHICAL QUESTIONS.
RESEARCHERS AT OREGON HEALTH AND
SCIENCE UNIVERSITY WERE ABLE TO
CREATE EMBRYONIC STEM CELLS
THROUGH A CLONED HUMAN EMBRYO, A
LONGTIME GOAL SINCE SUCH CELLS
SEEM CAPABLE OF TRANSFORMING
INTO TISSUES AND ORGANS
GENETICALLY IDENTICAL TO A
PATIENT WHO NEEDS THEM.
RESEARCHERS TOOK THE D.N.A. FROM
A DONOR'S UN-FERTILIZED EGG,
THEN INSERTED MATURE SKIN CELLS
CONTAINING THE D.N.A. OF A
PATIENT.
THAT LED TO THE CREATION OF AN
EARLY STAGE EMBRYO CALLED A
BLASTOCYST-- A GROUP OF 50 TO
100 CELLS.
FROM THAT, SCIENTISTS DERIVED
STEM CELLS AND THEN TRANSFORMED
THEM INTO HEART CELLS.
THE BLASTOCYST WAS DESTROYED IN
THE PROCESS AND WAS NEVER
IMPLANTED IN A HUMAN WOMB.
ROB STEIN HAS BEEN COVERING THIS
STORY FOR NPR.
>> NICE TO BE HERE.
>> Brown: FLAUL, WHY IS THIS
CONSIDERED SO IMPORTANT, THIS
PARTICULAR STEP.
>> EVERY SINCE SCIENTISTS
DISCOVERED STEM SEZ, THEY BARELY
USED THEM TO MASS PRODUCE
NONETHELESS LABORATORY WHATEVER
KIND OF CELL THEY WANT TO TREAT
PATIENTS, TO BE ABLE TO CREATE
THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS,
MILLIONS OF CELLS IN THE
LABORATORY TO TAILOR MAKE CELLS
TO TREAT PATIENTS WITH
ALZHEIMER'S OR PARKINSON'S
DISEASE OR CREATE HEART CELLS TO
TREAT PATIENTS WITH HEART
ATTACKS.
OR MAYBE CELLS FOR THE PANCREAS,
CHILDREN WITH DIABETES.
BUT IN ORDER TO DO THAT, THEY
WANTED TO BE ABLE TO TAILOR MAKE
THOSE CELLS WITH THE GENETIC
MATERIAL OF THE PATIENTS THEY
ARE TRYING TO TREAT AND THIS IS
THE TECHNIQUE THAT WILL FINALLY
BE ABLE TO ACCOMPLISH THAT GOAL.
>> Brown: THIS HAS BEEN HARD
TO DO, THOUGH, RIGHT?
IT'S BEEN A GOAL FOR A LONG
TIME.
WHY SO HARD?
WHY THE CHALLENGE?
>> SCIENTISTS HAVE BEEN TRYING
TO DO THIS FOR YEARS.
THEY TRIED AND TRIED AND THERE'S
BEEN FAILURE AFTER FAILURE,
CLAIMS THEY DID IT THAT TURNED
OUT TO BE FRAUD.
>> Brown: VERY NOTABLE ONE.
>> VERY HIGH PROFILE.
AND FOR THAT REASON, SOME
SCIENTISTS STARTED TO THINK
MAYBE IT WAS IMPOSSIBLE.
THEY COULD DO IT IN MICE AND
MONKIES AND OTHER ANIMALS BUT
THEY WERE NEVER ABLE TO DO IT IN
HUMANS AND SOME SCIENTISTS
STARTED TO THINK MAYBE THERE WAS
SOMETHING DIFFERENT ABOUT HUMANS
THAT MADE IT IMPOSSIBLE AND WE
ARE NEVER GOING TO BE ABLE TO
ACHIEVE THIS GOAL.
>> Brown: GLOU IS THERE A
SIMPLE WAY TO ACHIEVE TO US WHAT
THE DIFFERENCE WAS OR WHAT MADE
IT WORK?
>> THEY BASICALLY TWEAKED THE
FORMULA THAT THEY USED TO BE
ABLE TO DO THIS.
AS YOU SAID, THEY TOOK THE
GENETIC MATERIAL OUT OF AN EGG
AND REPLACED IT WITH THE GENETIC
MATERIAL OUT OF A CELL.
THERE WERE A COUPLE KEY STEPS
THAT SEEMED TO MAKE THE
DIFFERENCE.
THEY USE VERY FRESH EGGS.
MANY OF THE OTHER ATTEMPTS THEY
USED EGGS LEFT OVER FROM
FERTILITY PLACES AND THAT SEEMED
TO BE A KEY DIFFERENCE.
ANOTHER THING THEY DID,
BASICALLY THEY HAD TO KEEP THE
EGG IN A CERTAIN STAGE OF
DEVELOPMENT, SO WHEN THEY
INSERTED THE NEW GENES, THEY HAD
TO DO IT AT EXACTLY THE RIGHT
MOMENT SO IT WOULD BE ABLE TO GO
ON AND DEVELOP INTO AN EMBRYO
THAT COULD PRODUCE STEM CELLS
AND IT WAS THAT FORMULA THAT
MADE A DIFFERENCE.
ONE OF THE ASPECTS OF THAT
FORMULA WAS CAFFEINE.
>> Brown: WHAT WE ALL TAKE IN
EVERY MORNING.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Brown: WHAT WE WERE
REFERRING TO THAT LAST TIME WHEN
IT WAS ANNOUNCE BIDE SOME KOREAN
RESEARCHERS TURNED OUT TO BE A
HOAX, RIGHT, OR--
>> IT WAS A FRAUD.
>> Brown: A FRAUD.
>> IT WAS A VERY HIGH-FROFILE
CASE OF SCIENTIFIC FRAUD.
>> Brown: THIS TIME LOOKS
TOTALLY ON THE UP AND UP.
>> THIS IS A VERY
WELL-RESPECTED, WELL-KNOWN TEAM
OF SCIENTISTS, WITH A LONG TRACK
RECORD OF HAVING HAD SUCCESS IN
DOING THIS, USING THIS
TECHNOLOGY IN THE LABORATORY.
AS I SAID, THEY DID IT IN MICE,
AND THEN THEY DID IT IN MONKIES.
AND THAT SEEMS TO HAVE BEEN ONE
OF THE KEYS IS THEYAO TIRCHG
WERT FORMULA TO GET THE RIGHT
ONE THAT WOULD WORK THIS TIME.
>> Brown: AS WE NOTED, THIS
DOES RAISE CONCERNS THAT WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT HERE, AND YOU'VE
ROPPED FOR MANY YEARS,
INCLUDING, OF COURSE, DESTROYING
HUMAN EMBRYOS.
>> YEAH, IT RAISES SEVERAL
ETHICAL QUESTIONS.
ONE OF THEM IS, AS YOU SAID, THE
WHOLE IDEA OF INTENTIONALLY
CREATING AND THEN DESTROYING
EMBRYOS IN A LABORATORY FOR
RESEARCH PURPOSES.
AND FOR PEOPLE WHO BELIEVE THAT
EMBRYOS BASICALLY HAVE THE SAME
MORAL STATUS AS A HUMAN BEING,
THAT'S JUST MORALLY REPUGNANT
AND UNACCEPTABLE.
ANOTHER ETHICAL QUESTION THAT
THIS RACES IS THEY COMPENSATED
THE WOMEN FINANCIALLY FOR THEIR
EGGS, WHICH IN MANY PLACES, IS
NOT PERMITTED.
THERE ARE ONLY A COUPLE OF
PLACES IN THE COUNTRY THAT WILL
DO THAT, NEW YORK STATE AND
OREGON BECAUSE IT RAISES ALL
KIND OF QUESTIONS ABOUT
COMODIFYING BODY PARTS, SELLING
PEOPLE'S BODY PARTS.
AND THE LAST ETHICAL CONCERN
THIS RAISES AND PROBABLY THE ONE
MOST PEOPLE ARE CONCERNED ABOUT
IS THE TECHNOLOGY THEY USED IS
THE SAME TECHNOLOGY USED TO
CLONE DOLLY THE SHEEP.
SOME PEOPLE THINK THIS BASICALLY
COULD BE A STEP TOWARDS HUMAN
CLONING, THAT THEY FEEL THEY USE
THE EXACT SAME TECHNIQUE TO
POSSIBLY TRY TO CLONE A HUMAN.
>> Brown: IT PLAYS RIGHT INTO
THOSE FEARS THAT HAVE BEEN OUT
THERE FOR A LONG TIME ABOUT
CLONING ITSELF.
>> RIGHT, RIGHT.
THE RESEARCHERS WHO DID THIS
RESEARCH SAY THEY DON'T THINK IT
WOULD BASICALLY WORK, THAT
WHENEVER THEY'VE TRIED TO DO
THAT WITH ANIMALS IT FAILED.
AND SO THEY THINK IT WOULD FAIL
IF ANYBODY TRIED TO DO THAT WITH
PEOPLE.
BUT THERE'S A LOT OF CONCERN
THAT, THAT MIGHT NOT STOP
SOMEBODY FROM LEAST TRYING.
>> Brown: THERE IS ALSO THE
OTHER PART OF THE CONTEXT HERE,
THE WORK DONE WITH ADULT STEM
CELLS.
EXPLAIN THE DIFFERENCE IF YOU
CAN BRIEFLY, AND WHYTION TO
PURSUE.
>> WE ALL CARRY AROUND IN OUR
BODIES, ADULT STEM CELLS.
THESE ARE STEM CELLS THAT COULD
BE TURNED INTO SPECIFIC TISSUES,
LIKE OUR HEART HAVE HEART STEM
CELLS AND THEY CAN BE USED TO
MAKE NEW HEART CELLS, BUT THAT'S
ALL THEY CAN DO.
THE DIFFERENCE WITH THE
EMBRYONIC STEM CELL IS THEY CAN
USED FOR ANY CELL IN THE BOD.
THEY'VE DONE SOME EXPERIMENTS
WITH ADULT CELLS THAT SEEMED
PROMISING FOR CERTAIN DISEASES,
LIKE HEART DISEASE, PERHAPS,
THEY USE IT FOR BONE MARROW
TRANSPLANTS, LEUKEMIA.
BUT THE BIG DIFFERENCE HERE AS I
SAID IS EMBRYONIC STEM CELLS ARE
MUCH, MUCH MORE VERSATILE.
>> Brown: SO WHERE IS IT THIS
LEAVE THINGS, IN OUR LAST MINUTE
HERE, IN TERMS OF THE POLICY
DEBATE THAT CONTINUES, WHAT
HAPPENS NEXT?
AND HOW DOES THE NEWEST
DEVELOPMENT PLAY INTO THAT?
>> THERE'S A LOT OF TALK NOW
THAT THERE MIGHT BE AN ATTEMPT
TO REVIVE LEGISLATION IN
CONGRESS TO MAKE CLONING ILLEGAL
IN THE UNITED STATES, WHICH IT
IS NOT.
MANY OTHER COUNTRIES HAVE MADE
CLONING ILLEGAL.
IN THIS COUNTRY, IT IS STILL
LEGAL IN MOST STATES.
MAYBE A DOZEN STATES HAVE THEIR
OWN LAWS THAT MAKE IT ILLEGAL.
THAT MAY BE A BIG DEBATE,
POLITICAL DEBATE THAT COMES UP
AGAIN IN CONGRESS.
LAST TIME THAT HAPPENED IT
DOESN'T GO ANYWHERE BECAUSE IT
GOT MIRED IN THE WHOLE ABORTION
DEBATE.
WE'LL HAVE TO SEE IF THAT
HAPPENS AGAIN THIS TIME.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, ROB STEIN
OF NPR, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS FOR
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA MADE NEW EFFORTS
TO CALM A SERIES OF POLITICAL
STORMS.
IN PARTICULAR, HE PROMISED TO
WORK WITH CONGRESS TO PREVENT
ABUSES AT THE I.R.S., AS A
SECOND TOP AGENCY OFFICIAL
STEPPED DOWN.
THE PRESIDENT ALSO MET WITH
PENTAGON LEADERS AND SAID
THEY'RE ASHAMED AT THE
MILITARY'S FAILURE TO STOP
SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE RANKS.
AND THE TOWN OF GRANBURY, TEXAS,
PICKED UP THE PIECES AFTER A
NIGHT OF TORNADOES THAT LEVELED
HOMES AND KILLED SIX PEOPLE.
>> Brown: AND ONLINE TODAY: FOR
ASTRONAUTS, RETURNING TO EARTH
IS MORE COMPLICATED THAN JUST
MAKING A SAFE LANDING.
KWAME HOLMAN EXPLAINS.
>> Holman: CANADIAN ASTRONAUT
CHRIS HADFIELD RECENTLY RETURNED
FROM A FOUR-MONTH STAY AT THE
INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION.
ON THE RUNDOWN, WE EXAMINE HOW
HIS BODY CHANGED IN SPACE AND
THE CHALLENGES OF REACCLIMATING
TO LIFE ON EARTH.
AND ON ART BEAT, A LOOK AT LIFE
ON THE STREETS OF THE WINDY
CITY, RAY SUAREZ TALKS WITH
ONSTEIN WHO
TURNED HIS LENS ON CHICAGO'S
SOUTH SIDE, TO DOCUMENT THE
ONGOING VIOLENCE IN A PROJECT
CALLED "CHICAGO'S BLOODY YEAR."
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
JEFF?
>> Brown: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY ROBERT MacNEIL AND JIM
LEHRER LOOK BACK 40 YEARS TO THE
STORY THAT BROUGHT THEM TOGETHER
IN OUR SPECIAL REPORT, "COVERING
WATERGATE."
I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS, AMONG
OTHERS.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.